---
layout: post
title: We went to see a rock band and it made me obsess harder about my business
published: false
---

If you've worked with me you'll know that I'm almost always wearing headphones. If we've had a Zoom/GMeet/etc type call then you'll have spotted amplifier mountain behind me in my home office. Music is a big part of what I do outside of making Zendesk make sense.

We usually get to a lot of gigs and this year was no exception, but the one that really blew me away recently was<!--excerpt-end--> the mighty The Atomic Bitchwax. I came across them in the early 2000s when a friend sent me a track from his university DC network, but somehow I'd never managed to catch them live until this year. Here's what they look and sound like, before I get into why I found this so inspiring!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GiE4-JF9VW0?si=FWPfbRoiMwOp8XFg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


* Go and see Queens of the Stone Age and count how many instruments and amplifiers and effects they turn up with. You'll get to enjoy an hour of sound techs wandering around with patch cables and 12v adapters before you hear any music. TAB were ready to play in a couple of minutes. They even gave the support band a hand moving their gear backstage.
* Similar bands tend to lack the focus of TAB and create songs which are really just too long for live performance. Yes I'm looking at you, [Sleep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hIw7oeZKpZc)[^1]. TAB songs are pretty much all around the three minute mark. This is the correct amount of time in a live scenario.
* 



[^1]: I've linked to the Southern Lord reissue mix because the Third Man version makes several key sections of the song worse, in my view, particularly the percussion at around 9:20 onwards. The compression on the toms in particular has a different attack profile and in any case [remixing is like admitting you were wrong](https://dieselsweeties.com/archive/737) says Indie Rock Pete.