---
layout: post
title: Can AI and human service agents co-exist?
published: false
---

Obviously the covid situation had a big affect on the ways people work in many industries and roles, but in call centres for banks and utility companies it really did turn the whole world upside down overnight. The companies where I have worked were surprisingly adaptable with the situation that evolved day by day. Laptops were issued, furniture delivered to homes, everything carried on as normal as possible with barely a pause for breath.

This wasn't to last forever, of course.<!--excerpt-end--> Economic uncertainly, particularly around gas prices, buried a series of otherwise solid companies in the energy sector. This created a surplus of trained call centre agents floating around the job sites as customers were rolled up and passed over to Octopus and Bulb, operators on a larger scale with more efficient processes. Meanwhile, those in the large offices sat in Herman Miller chairs could look out through their glass doors and see expensive yet empty desk space and look through Slack and see people chattering away in #show-your-pets or similarly named channels. They reached the wrong conclusion, namely that the cost of a large office space was outweighed by the potential productivity gains of staff being literally watched over their shoulders.

We've reached a point with call centres where managers are being expected to do more and more with less and less. I spoke last week with a friend who runs the customer service team at an exciting financial technology startup (the excellent HyperJar, who remain thoroughly committed to quality customer service) who also has been seeing this issue in the industry. We spoke at an industry event organised by Ultimate.ai alongside Salto and Zendesk, where a common theme was that organisations view customer support as a cost only to be minimised. There's little consideration to the cost of retention, the reputational hit from providing poor service. This is creating an appetite for Operations managers to be looking out for AI based tooling, so that the capacity of the support team can be increased while maintaining or reducing headcount even as sales hopefully increase.

My HyperJar colleague is firmly of the view that anyone above the support manager in the heirachy of these businesses has no idea what the metrics they receive in their reports actually represent. Most with a Director of Operations or similar title will be checking on a fortnightly basis that the median first response time, the average handling time, the quartiles for full resolution time are all decreasing. That's the extent of it though, they don't have a meaningful comparison for what good looks like, the only information is "is this number smaller than the previous number" and that is their goal.

If consumers want to see really good customer service, they need to demand it from the businesses they use. This isn't a one way street though, as companies will also need us to change our behaviours. It's straightforward. We need to accept that we will first need to talk to a computer, which will most likely be able to solve the issue quicker at any rate. This will be different from the old ways. We're not looking at "Press 1 to make a payment" type deals. The good businesses will come to you. No one likes having a phone glued to their ear listening to a ten second loop of Coldplay, so instead we'll be suggesting you just Whatsapp us, or whatever app is appropriate. Fashion companies will be happy with a DM on Instagram, for example. We'll need consumers to be comfortable giving the key information to the bot. This won't be your credit card number ever, but it will be your postcode to check who you are, your phone number so that we can call you back.

Demand that these AI chatbots have a get-out option of "Can you get a human to call me" and then give you a choice of times. This will be the hallmark of a company taking the customer experience seriously. the agent who calls you will know they need to prove who they are as much as you do to them for security reasons, so the bot might give you a code word for confirmation. The agent might advise that the bot could have solved this, and give you some tips for next time you have an issue. We need to get used to allowing ourselves to be educated on how to self-serve and also the companies need to absorb feedback where their tooling isn't working.

It's a tough time in the world for customer service agents and for consumers, with the uncertainty on jobs, wages, and prices. But this is natural when something is entirely uprooted by technology, as AI has threatened to. The best businesses will work out how to make AI and human service agents co-exist.